---
layout: post
title: Top 10 Posts of 2013
tags: [ad-lds,development,news,sp2010,sp2013,ssrs,sql]
---

A lot has happened this past year, and I wanted to highlight the top 10 posts on this blog by traffic in 2013, as well as a few of my favorite posts.

1. [Installing SharePoint 2010 and SQL Server 2012 on Windows Server 2012 Release Preview]({% post_url 2012-06-10-installing-sharepoint-2010-and-sql-server-2012-on-windows-server-2012-release-preview %})
    This was an interesting one, as it was not supported at the time, but there appeared to be a high demand for how to do this. Even today, I see a high demand for wanting to install SharePoint 2013 on Windows Server 2012 R2, another unsupported installation scenario (until SharePoint 2013 with SP1 media is released).
2. [Using Application Request Routing as a Reverse Proxy for SharePoint]({% post_url 2013-05-25-using-application-request-routing-as-a-reverse-proxy-for-sharepoint %})
    Quite a fun blog post on how to use the IIS Application Routing Request module as a reverse proxy. With the demise of both TMG and UAG (functionality is partially replaced by the Web Proxy Role in Server 2012 R2), this provides a decent, free alternative non-authentication reverse proxy server.
3. [A Practical Guide to Implementing Incoming Email using the SharePoint Directory Management Service]({% post_url 2013-02-01-a-practical-guide-to-implementing-incoming-email-using-the-sharepoint-directory-management-service %})
    How to properly configure Incoming Email using Exchange. There are a lot of guides out there on how to do this, but very few end-to-end guides, from schema upgrades to integration.
4. [SharePoint 2013 April 2013 Cumulative Update Fails]({% post_url 2013-05-03-sharepoint-2013-april-2013-cumulative-update-fails %})
    What a pain this bug is/was. There was a lot of manual work if you had MySites present when attempting to upgrade to this particular Cumulative Update.
5. [Supported file formats in the SharePoint 2013 Media Web Part]({% post_url 2013-01-16-supported-file-formats-in-the-sharepoint-2013-media-web-part %})
    Sometimes references can only be documented from code. This is one of those times.
6. [SharePoint 2013 for Education]({% post_url 2012-11-24-sharepoint-2013-for-education %})
    An unfortunately unsupported, beta feature! While it should later be stripped from SharePoint 2013 completely, many people in the community wished this feature had been completed by Microsoft to have a Microsoft-supported LMS again. It would have made a great Blackboard competitor.
7. [SharePoint 2010 and Active Directory Lightweight Directory Services – Better Together]({% post_url 2012-01-03-sharepoint-2010-and-active-directory-lightweight-directory-services-better-together %})
    Always one of my favorite subjects, authentication, authorization, and Directory Services, like AD LDS!
8. [SharePoint Error “An error has occurred in the claim providers configured for this site collection” – Easy fix!]({% post_url 2011-03-18-sharepoint-error-an-error-has-occured-in-the-claim-providers-configured-for-this-site-collection-easy-fix %})
    At least the fix is easy...
9. [Browser File Handling and avoiding Permissive mode]({% post_url 2011-06-01-browser-file-handling-and-avoiding-permissive-mode %})
    Friends don't let friends use Permissive mode, and neither should you. Always make exceptions, rather than just turning off security.
10. [Enabling RBS on multiple content databases]({% post_url 2011-03-18-enabling-rbs-on-multiple-content-databases %})
    An older post, but also quite popular. Originally, Microsoft's TechNet documentation did not cover enabling RBS on more than a single content database (as the Microsoft RBS solution is targeted to the small SharePoint Foundation farms).


Now, onto my favorites of the year, which include a few of those above!

1. [Using an External Identity Manager for SharePoint User Profile Synchronization]({% post_url 2013-06-01-using-an-external-identity-manager-for-sharepoint-user-profile-synchronization %})
    I have to admit, I had an absolute blast with the whole process of figuring this out from the fairly light documentation provided by Microsoft. In working on this, comparing both the built-in FIM, as well as working directly with the Product Group creating the SharePoint Connector for Forefront Identity Manager, large institutions, or institutions with special requirements can easily import users into the UPA from a variety of directory services while not being limited to those offered via the built-in FIM.
2. [Quickly Identifying Reporting Services Subscriptions in SharePoint]({% post_url 2013-12-12-quickly-identifying-reporting-services-subscriptions %})
    This is what happens when you ask interesting questions on the MSDN/TechNet SharePoint forums. Sometimes you get a bit of research out of it. The goal of the particular poster was removing all SSRS Subscriptions across the entire farm.
3. [The Magic of Get-SPProduct -Local]({% post_url 2013-12-05-the-magic-of-get-spproduct-local %})
    A cmdlet most SharePoint Administrators will use at some point, it resolves the question of why Get-SPProduct does more than "get".
4. [Selective Authentication can Kill the People Picker in a Two-Way Trust]({% post_url 2013-03-20-selective-authentication-can-kill-the-people-picker-in-a-two-way-trust %})
    This was an absolute blast of a problem! Another post from an MSDN/TechNet thread, this involved network traces working with someone 1/4 the way around the world to figure out why a Two-Way Trust did not function correctly. Turns out, Selective Trusts have additional requirements for the PeoplePicker to properly function.
5. [What Makes a Great SharePoint Administrator?]({% post_url 2013-07-31-what-makes-a-great-sharepoint-administrator %})
    What really makes a great SharePoint Admin? I have my definition, what is your's?
6. [Using Application Request Routing as a Reverse Proxy for SharePoint]({% post_url 2013-05-25-using-application-request-routing-as-a-reverse-proxy-for-sharepoint %})
    See above for one of the more popular posts of the year, think of ARR as a potential candidate for your reverse proxy solution.
7. [The Fill Factor Mystery]({% post_url 2013-04-23-the-fill-factor-mystery %})
    Fill factors in SharePoint 2013 changed quite a bit from 2010, see this post for more information.
8. [SharePoint TreeView]({% post_url 2013-05-19-sharepoint-treeview %})
    When the built-in SPTreeView doesn't fit your needs, sometimes you have to create your own.
9. [A Practical Guide to Implementing Incoming Email using the SharePoint Directory Management Service]({% post_url 2013-02-01-a-practical-guide-to-implementing-incoming-email-using-the-sharepoint-directory-management-service%})
    Another one of the more popular posts this year, creating end-to-end guides is always fun to do for those just getting started with the platform and need a little help to get to their destination.
10. [SharePoint Cannot Send Mail to Itself]({% post_url 2013-03-23-sharepoint-cannot-send-mail-to-itself %})
    While USPS might wonder about why you'd want to pay to mail yourself, SharePoint just won't let you.

I hope everyone has had a great year, and it has been a blast to be part of the community for another year! Here is looking to 2014 to doing more of the same, and perhaps something a little different from time to time! Lastly, don't forget my domain has changed from <http://sharepoint.nauplius.net> to <http://thesharepointfarm.com>. Redirection is in place, so all previous links will still properly route to where you want to get, so hopefully it isn't too much of an inconvenience.

Happy New Year, everyone!